# Testudine-wide-Transposable-element-exploration-A-history-of-slow-evolution-and-conserved-genomes

Different environments offer distinct selective pressures associated to species adaptation and this process leaves behind signatures in species genomes. Transposable elements (TEs) are important agents during adaptation, changing and modulating their host genomes in a non-random way, through sequence-specific transposition, histone methylation modification and insertions dependent of gene density.  This could produce gene duplication and or modification in the regulation of genes. Nonetheless, the relationship between genes and TEs has been poorly studied, especially in the focus on how TE are positionally related to genes features such as genes and exons. Here we show a comparative TE analysis on ten species from six different turtle superfamilies. We compare the general proportion of TE across different species. Additionally, we explore the interaction between TEs and gene features, describing their proportions in each species and proposing TE (Helitron) as an example of TEs actively duplicating gene features. The turtle species studied showed a similar level of TEs comprising around 42% of their genome content. We identify TEs interacting with different parts in a gene feature (exons and introns). We also report TEs integrating into the genome in the same proportion upstream and downstream of genes and exons. Also, we identify evidence of Helitrons containing a gene that could duplicate upon transposition, together with evidence of members of the same subfamily and fragments of the inserted gene in a different part of the genome. This constitutes the first attempt to describe and understand the relationship between gene features and TEs on Testudines. Our findings hard to the  understanding  of interactions between gene features and TE and brings a broad understanding of the Testudine clade mobilome.
